---
layout: post
title: You are the algorithm
date: 2025-01-11
---

[This post](https://lmnt.me/blog/range.html) from Louie Mantia resonated with me, RSS is how I mainly use the internet since years. I do have social network accounts but I’m not really a social network person, my [RSS reader](https://netnewswire.com/) is my personal social network where I aggregate the things I’m interested in.

No algorithms, only my choices.

Building an RSS flow takes time and work, you need to do some research in order to find something that seems relevant for what you want to understand, and you have to read it in order to understand if it is really relevant and if the source is worth to be on your feed aggregator.

Search engines results are algorithm driven so you will not be totally algorithm immune. But doing your own research is a good starting point, you will likely find content generated by humans, you can read it and go deeper. And if there’s other linked within you can go further and read the linked content, this is how dicoverability is improved.

Quoting Mantia:

As for discoverability? Link generously. Link to people you like who say and make things you like. That’s how everyone discovers more people like that

This is how [zettelkasten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zettelkasten) works, the method I use for my personal knowledge management system.

Internet is a huge opportunity, it is an almost infinite container of informations, surfing it with the RSS approach takes time, work, curation, but to me this is the only way to build your own personal knowledge using the web.

It’s the old way, blogs, original content, it is the active way not the passive offered by algorithm driven social platforms.

You are the moderator.

You are the algorithm.